A [PWA](https://developers.google.com/web/progressive-web-apps/) using
[Vue.js](https://vuejs.org/) and [Onsen UI](https://onsen.io/). Used for
citizen science data collection for orchids in Australia. Uses OAuth from, and
uploads obsversations to [iNaturalist](https://inaturalist.org/).

# Developers
[![FOSSA Status](https://app.fossa.io/api/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fternandsparrow%2Fwild-orchid-watch-pwa.svg?type=shield)](https://app.fossa.io/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fternandsparrow%2Fwild-orchid-watch-pwa?ref=badge_shield)


## Quickstart

Requirements:
  - yarn >= 1.16
  - node >= 10
  - modern web browser (Chrome is a good choice)

  1. clone repo
  1. install deps: `yarn`
  1. create a `.env.local` file in the root of this project. In this file you
     can override values from the `.env` file. It's worth noting that this file
     is ignored by version control. You'll probably want define at least a
     Google Maps API key so the maps work but you may also need to change the
     OAuth client ID, something like:
      ```env
      VUE_APP_OAUTH_APP_ID=12f220435464a8abd9878cc1805e14643432a8bd268121c7f4698ff0a903e535
      VUE_APP_GMAPS_API_KEY=AIzaImNotARealKeyDontTryToUseMeIxChzwoc
      # you can comment with a hashed line too
      ```
  1. run the dev server:
      ```
      yarn serve
      # Or, if you want to listen on your external IP
      yarn serve --host=11.22.33.44
      # note that this will only work when running in development mode as there's no service worker, which would require HTTPS and a valid cert, which you almost certainly don't have on your local machine.
      ```
  1. open the app URL (probably `http://localhost:8080`) in your browser
  1. this is a PWA (web page that feels like a native app) so it's best to enable the [Mobile Device Viewport Mode](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools/device-mode/#device) as a Pixel 2 or iPhone 8.

## Not-so-quick-but-better-start

PWAs *need* to be served over HTTPS for essential features to work. There's an
allowance for localhost to *not* require HTTPS, which is why the quickstart
method above works.  If you want to run the dev server and access it with your
phone, or emulator, then you'll need something in place that provides HTTPS.
Using snakeoil certs doesn't seem to work well (at the very least, Hot Module
Reload sockets won't connect) so the fix is to run a remote SSH tunnel to a
bastion host that has a real SSL cert issued. You can use [this docker-compose
stack](https://github.com/tomsaleeba/docker-https-ssh-tunnel) to achieve that.

  1. start the bastion host from [this repo](https://github.com/tomsaleeba/docker-https-ssh-tunnel)
  1. run the webpack-dev-server for this project, telling it to respond to the DNS associated with the bastion host
      ```bash
      PROXY_HOST=blah.example.com yarn serve
      ```
  1. start the remote SSH tunnel to the bastion host (confirm command in the other repo)
      ```bash
      ./start_tunnel.sh 8080 blah.example.com
      ```

Now you have a publicly accessible host, with an SSL cert from a trusted CA,
that also has HotModuleReload. Hack away!

### Testing service worker

To check that the service worker is working as you expect, there's a few things
you need to do differently.

  1. you can't use the webpack-dev-server, instead you must `yarn build` to
     produce the binary in the `dist/` dir
  1. serve the built files using a webserver, and
      1. set the `NODE_ENV=production` env var
      1. don't serve the content (or access it) on `localhost` (or `127.0.0.1`)
      1. make sure the webserver is configure to play nice with an SPA, that is
         if a request comes in and there's no matching file (e.g.
         `/oauth-callback`) then it should instead serve up `index.html`

## Configuring env vars
There are aspects of this app that can be configured at deploy-time such as API
URIs, keys, etc. We achieve this by using `.env*` files that `vue-cli` reads
and injects for us. [See the
doco](https://cli.vuejs.org/guide/mode-and-env.html#environment-variables) for
more details.

There are a number of defaults configured already in `.env`. If the values in
this file don't suit your environment, you can an override them in a file named
`.env.local` . Git *will ignore* this `.en.local` file.

CircleCI builds will have any required vars written to the `.env.local` file
during the build process so check the [build config](./.circleci/config.yml) if
you need to make sure a value is configured during the build.

## Config via environment variables

Look in `src/misc/constants.js` for all the values that can be configured. See
the [CircleCI config](.circleci/config.yml) in the build step, for how we set
them during CI. The summary is there are a few items that aren't environment
specific (Firebase token, Sentry DSN, etc) and the rest that are prefixed with
an environment name like `PROD_` or `DEV_`.

For Sentry.io, we need two sets of information:
  1. `SENTRY_{AUTH_TOKEN|ORG|PROJECT}` that will be used during deploy to
     upload sourcemaps and mark a release. Note that fresh projects don't have
     an auth token, you'll need to [generate
     one](https://sentry.io/settings/account/api/auth-tokens/). The default
     permissions work fine.
  1. `SENTRY_DSN` that will be deployed in the app for error reporting

For Firebase, you don't need to deploy from your local machine. We have
CircleCI to deploy for us. To achieve this, it needs a token for auth. Get a
token with:
  1. make sure you have the `firebase` command: `yarn global add firebase-tools`
  1. on your local machine, run `firebase login:ci`
  1. confirm the login in your browser
  1. you'll get the token in your terminal, set the CircleCI env var
     `FIREBASE_TOKEN` to this value

## Testing workflow

You can run unit tests one off with: `yarn test:unit`.

If you want the unit tests to run every time you save a file (watch mode), use:
`yarn test:unit --watchAll`.

Unit tests use Jest. You can find the doco for `expect()` at
[https://jestjs.io/docs/en/expect]().

## Architecture
See [./ARCHITECTURE.md](./ARCHITECTURE.md) for details on how this app is built.


## License
[![FOSSA Status](https://app.fossa.io/api/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fternandsparrow%2Fwild-orchid-watch-pwa.svg?type=large)](https://app.fossa.io/projects/git%2Bgithub.com%2Fternandsparrow%2Fwild-orchid-watch-pwa?ref=badge_large)